JAKE ARCHIBALD: There's
a lot of observers
that I don't know
why we have them.
SURMA: OK.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Because a lot
of them it's just sort of like,
uh, this doesn't
feel like an event
or this is batched work
or something like that.
And the go-to has been to
create an observer for it.
And really, you don't need that.
We could just use [INAUDIBLE].
SURMA: I can come up with
three observers right now.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Mutation,
resize, intersection.
I can also come up with three.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Anyone who's done some
work with CSS at some point
using responsive stuff
with media queries and such
has kind of had the idea, ha,
this media query stuff is OK,
but what I really
would like is a way
to style this
element differently
to how big this element is.
And then, go on Twitter and
say, hey, I've had a bright idea
or file a bug about it.
I'm basically saying
what I did, by the way.
This is what I did years ago.
And people were like yes, yes.
SURMA: We know.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Many
people have had this idea.
The reason we can't just
have element queries
is because you can end
up with a query which
changes based on width.
And as a result, it changes
width and you end up in--
SURMA: Whee.
JAKE ARCHIBALD:
--an infinite loop.
Bad idea, right?
SURMA: That seems pretty bad.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: So there's a web
standard called ResizeObserver
and it's stable in Chrome.
And [INAUDIBLE] for an element
you just say that element
there--
SURMA: Observe.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Yeah, let me
know when it changes size.
SURMA: All right, that's cool.
So that means it can react.
It's a JavaScript API, so it
can react with JavaScript.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Exactly.
SURMA: So we are back at
the infinite loop problem.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: So I
was reading your article
and you've got a
section on that.
SURMA: Do I?
JAKE ARCHIBALD: You've got,
yeah, just a little bit--
a little bit of text on it.
Changes will only be
processed in the same frame
if the resize element is
deeper in the DOM tree
than the shallowest
element process
in the previous callback.
SURMA: That's a weird menu.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Perfect.
So that's just words.
That's just some words
you like in an order.
SURMA: I think I explained
it pretty concisely.
This that actually what I wrote?
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Yeah.
Talk us through it.
SURMA: OK.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: I'm just
saying that because I
don't understand some, so
taking advantage of it.
SURMA: So imagine you have
an element that has children,
as is common.
And you call
ResizeObserver.observe
on this element.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: On the parent?
SURMA: Yeah, on the big.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: All right,
all right, all right.
SURMA: That means whenever
this element changes size,
you will get a callback
and you can react to it.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Cool.
Excellent.
Yeah.
SURMA: So now, let's
assume you also
call another
ResizeObserver.observe on one
of the children.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: OK, because as
a result of the parent changing
size, the children could change.
SURMA: Could change
size, and want
to be notified about both,
so both ResizeObservers would
fire their callbacks and
you would get notified.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Right.
SURMA: Let's assume
a third thing
that in one of the
children's callbacks,
I change the parent's size.
It's JavaScript,
that's possible, right?
I can just change
anything in the DOM.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Gotcha.
And it could even
be done implicitly
by changing the size of
the child, which would--
SURMA: Potentially,
if it's just text flow
or just append some text.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Right, OK.
SURMA: The parent could suddenly
grow, and then technically,
the outer-- the bigger--
ResizeObserver from
the other element
will have to fire again, and the
smaller one probably as well,
and then it could same happen
again, and again, and again.
JAKE ARCHIBALD:
There's your loop.
SURMA: And how we
break this loop
is with a rule that
ResizeObservers--
all the ResizeObserver
will fire in the same frame
before layout.
And if you change
within the same one,
they will also fire
within the same frame,
unless the change has been
made to an element that
is at the same level or
higher up the DOM tree.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: So it's like,
in terms of how we talk about
events capturing, it's--
SURMA: It's reverse bubbling.
JAKE ARCHIBALD:
Yeah, but capturing.
So that's the-- ah, so
that's the direction it goes.
SURMA: So you can only
have multiple invocations
of your callbacks
downwards of the tree.
But if some of them that
are high up in the tree
would have to
refire, that would be
delayed until the next frame.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: So
what you're saying
is that the change is only
processed in the same frame
if the resized element
is deeper in the DOM tree
than the shallowest
element processed
in the previous callback.
SURMA: That's exactly
what I'm saying.
And that's actually
what I wrote.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: It
makes sense now.
It's perfect.
You should have put that in
the article like you did.
SURMA: I think at
the end, I think
I remember writing
this article and there
were lots of things changing.
And so, I got a bit
annoyed because I
think I was working on an
animation, and at the end,
I was like, nah.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Just copy
and paste that from the spec.
Job done.
All right, well, yes.
I like it.
I think we should keep
it in the browser.
I think other people
should implement it.
SURMA: That's us doing
advocacy, isn't it?
Other people should
implement it, please.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: We didn't
give that trendy weightless
CSS name, did we?
Did I?
SURMA: Is it layout enhancer.
JAKE ARCHIBALD:
Layout enhancer--
I think I get a lot of emails
about that to my Spam folder.
So this is a real cafe?
It's a real cafe, yes?
Of course.
[INAUDIBLE] podcast,
could be anywhere.
It could be--
SURMA: Space.
In space.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Now, when we
do the two minute segments,
I want that as the noise.
You just go space.